 Aspergillosis is a condition caused by aspergillus mould. There are several different types of aspergillosis. Most affect the lungs and cause breathing difficulties. 
How you get aspergillosis
 How you get aspergillosisAspergillosis is usually caused by inhaling tiny bits of mould. The mould is found in lots of places, including:soil, compost and rotting leavesplants, trees and cropsdustdamp buildingsair conditioning systemsYou cannot catch aspergillosis from someone else or from animals. Information: Most people who breathe in the mould do not get ill. 
Aspergillosis is rare in healthy people
 Aspergillosis is rare in healthy peopleYou're usually only at risk of aspergillosis if you have:a lung condition – such as asthma, cystic fibrosis or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)a weakened immune system – for example, if you have had an organ transplant or are having chemotherapyhad tuberculosis (TB) in the pastsevere flu or coronavirus (COVID-19) and need artificial ventilation 
Symptoms of aspergillosis
 Symptoms of aspergillosisSymptoms of aspergillosis include:shortness of breatha cough – you may cough up blood or lumps of mucuswheezing (a whistling sound when breathing)a high temperature of 38C or aboveweight lossIf you already have a lung condition, your existing symptoms may get worse. 
 Non-urgent advice: See a GP if you have: a cough for more than 3 weeksa lung condition that's getting worse or harder to control with your usual treatmenta weakened immune system and symptoms of aspergillosisGet an urgent GP appointment if you cough up blood. Call 111 if you cannot see your GP. 
 What happens at your appointmentYour GP will check for an obvious cause of your symptoms, like a chest infection or asthma.If they're not sure what the problem is, they may refer you to a specialist for tests such as:X-rays and scansblood tests or tests on a sample of mucusallergy testsa bronchoscopy – where a thin, flexible tube with a camera at the end is used to look inside your lungs 
Treatment for aspergillosis depends on the type
 Treatment for aspergillosis depends on the typeTreatment usually helps control the symptoms. If it's not treated or well controlled, there's a risk it could damage your lungs. Treatments for common types of aspergillosis Common types Treatment Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) – an allergy to aspergillus mould steroid tablets and antifungal tablets for a few months (possibly longer) Chronic pulmonary aspergillosis (CPA) – a long-term lung infection long-term (possibly lifelong) treatment with antifungal tablets Aspergilloma – a ball of mould in the lungs, often linked to CPA surgery to remove the ball if it's causing symptoms, often after antifungal treatment Invasive pulmonary aspergillus (IPA) – a life-threatening infection in people with a weakened immune system antifungal medicine given directly into a vein in hospital 
You cannot always prevent aspergillosis
 You cannot always prevent aspergillosisIt's almost impossible to completely avoid aspergillus mould.But there are things you can do to reduce your risk of aspergillosis if you have a lung condition or weakened immune system. Do try to avoid places where aspergillus mould is often found, such as compost heaps and piles of dead leaves close your windows if there's construction work or digging outside wear a face mask in dusty places consider using an air purifier at home – devices with HEPA filters are best Don’t do not dry your laundry in your bedroom or living areas, if possible – ideally dry it outside or in a tumble dryer Information: You can find out more about aspergillosis on the Aspergillosis Patients and Carers website. 
