 Auditory processing disorder (APD) is where you have difficulty understanding sounds, including spoken words. There are things you can do that can help. 
Check if you or your child have auditory processing disorder (APD)
 Check if you or your child have auditory processing disorder (APD) Auditory processing disorder (APD) often starts in childhood, but some people develop it later.If you or your child have APD, you may find it difficult to understand:people speaking in noisy placespeople with strong accents or fast talkerssimilar sounding wordsspoken instructionsAPD is not a hearing problem. People with the condition usually have normal hearing. 
 
 Non-urgent advice: See a GP if: you or your child find it hard to hear or understand speechThe GP may refer you to a hearing specialist. 
Tests for auditory processing disorder (APD)
 Tests for auditory processing disorder (APD) To test for auditory processing disorder (APD) you or your child may be asked to:listen to speech with background noisespot small changes in soundsfill in missing parts of wordsOther tests may include:having electrodes on your head to measure how your brain reacts to soundspeech and language testsmemory, problem-solving and concentration testsTesting for APD is not usually done on children under 7 years old. 
Treating auditory processing disorder (APD)
 Treating auditory processing disorder (APD) There's no cure for auditory processing disorder (APD) but there are things that can help.Treatment usually involves activities to improve listening and concentration. This is called auditory training. You can do it with a hearing specialist or in your own time online.To reduce background noise, schoolchildren with APD may be advised to wear a wireless earpiece that connects to a tiny microphone worn by their teacher. 
Things you can do to help with auditory processing disorder (APD)
 Things you can do to help with auditory processing disorder (APD) There are things that you and other people can do to help with your or your child's auditory processing disorder (APD). Do talk face to face use pictures and text repeat or rephrase things if necessary use carpet and soft furnishings to reduce room noise Don’t do not cover your mouth when talking do not talk in long complicated sentences do not speak too fast or too slow do not have background noise, like TV and radio 
 Information: APD Support UK provides information and online support groups for parents and adults with APD 
Causes of auditory processing disorder (APD)
 Causes of auditory processing disorder (APD) It's not always clear what causes auditory processing disorder (APD).Possible causes include:regular ear infectionsgeneticshead injurycomplications at birthAPD is often found in people with attention, language and learning difficulties, such as dyslexia and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). 
