 Blisters often heal on their own within a week. They can be painful while they heal, but you will not usually need to see a GP. 
How you can treat a blister yourself
 How you can treat a blister yourself There are things you can do to protect a blister and help stop it getting infected. Do cover blisters with a soft plaster or padded dressing wash your hands before touching a burst blister allow the fluid in a burst blister to drain before covering it with a plaster or dressing Don’t do not burst a blister yourself do not peel the skin off a burst blister do not pick at the edges of the remaining skin do not wear the shoes or use the equipment that caused your blister until it heals A pharmacist can help with blistersTo protect your blister from becoming infected, a pharmacist can recommend a plaster or dressing to cover it while it heals.A hydrocolloid dressing (a moist dressing) can protect the blister, help reduce pain and speed up healing. Find a pharmacy 
Check if you have a blister
 Check if you have a blister Blisters are small pockets of clear fluid under a layer of skin. Credit: DR P. MARAZZI/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY https://www.sciencephoto.com/media/157872/view Blood blisters may look red or black and are filled with blood instead of clear fluid. Credit: DR P. MARAZZI/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY https://www.sciencephoto.com/media/284441/view An infected blister can be hot and filled with green or yellow pus. The surrounding skin may look red, but this can be hard to see on darker skin tones. Credit: DR P. MARAZZI/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY https://www.sciencephoto.com/media/575658/view Important Do not ignore an infected blister. Without treatment it could lead to a skin or blood infection. 
 
 Non-urgent advice: See a GP if: a blister is very painful or keeps coming backthe skin looks infected – it's hot and the blister is filled with green or yellow pusthe skin around the blister looks red, but this can be harder to see on darker skin tonesa blister is in an unusual place – such as your eyelids, mouth or genitalsseveral blisters have appeared for no reasona blister was caused by a burn or scald, sunburn, or an allergic reaction 
Treatment from a GP
 Treatment from a GP A GP might burst a large or painful blister using a sterilised needle. If your blister is infected, they may prescribe antibiotics.They can also offer treatment and advice if blisters are caused by a medical condition. 
 Conditions that can cause blisters chickenpox – a childhood illness that causes itchy spotscold sores – small blisters that develop on the lips or around the mouth, caused by a virusgenital herpes – a sexually transmitted infection (STI) that most commonly affects the groinbullous impetigo – a bacterial skin infectionpompholyx – a type of eczemascabies – a skin condition caused by tiny miteshand, foot and mouth disease – a viral infection that usually affects young children 
How to prevent blisters
 How to prevent blisters Blisters develop to protect damaged skin and help it heal. They're mostly caused by friction, burns and skin reactions, such as an allergic reaction.Blood blisters appear when blood vessels in the skin have also been damaged. They're often more painful than a regular blister.If you often get friction blisters on your feet or hands:wear comfortable, well-fitting shoeswear new shoes for short periods of time, until they're comfortablewear thick socks during exercisedust talcum powder in your socks if you get sweaty feetwear protective gloves when you exercise or if you use tools at work 
