 Brucellosis is an infection you can catch from unpasteurised milk and cheese. It's extremely rare in the UK. 
How you catch brucellosis
 How you catch brucellosisIt's mainly caught by:drinking milk that has not been pasteurised (heat-treated to kill bacteria)eating dairy products, like cheese and ice cream, made from unpasteurised milkYou can also catch brucellosis from eating raw or undercooked meat. Or you can catch the infection from contact with bodily fluids of farm animals such as cows, goats, sheep and pigs. But this is rare.It's very rare to catch brucellosis from other people. 
Symptoms of brucellosis
 Symptoms of brucellosisSymptoms may appear suddenly over 1 to 2 days or gradually over several weeks.Symptoms of brucellosis are like flu:a high temperatureloss of appetitesweatingheadachesextreme tirednessback and joint pain 
 Non-urgent advice: See a GP if you have symptoms of brucellosis and: you've had unpasteurised milk or dairy productsyou've eaten raw or undercooked meatyou work closely with farm animalsTell your GP if you have recently travelled overseas. 
How brucellosis is treated
 How brucellosis is treatedBrucellosis is usually diagnosed using a blood test.The infection is treated with a course of antibiotics for at least 6 weeks. It's important to finish your course even if you start to feel better.You should make a full recovery, and the infection is unlikely to return. 
How to avoid getting brucellosis
 How to avoid getting brucellosisThere's no human vaccine against brucellosis, but there are things you can do to reduce your chances of getting it. Do avoid contact with livestock and wild animals while travelling in places where brucellosis is a problem wear protective clothing if working with animals put a plaster on any wounds before touching animals Don’t do not drink unpasteurised milk do not eat dairy products, like cheese and ice cream, made from unpasteurised milk do not eat raw or undercooked meat 
Report suspected brucellosis
 Report suspected brucellosisBrucellosis is a notifiable animal disease. If you suspect you or someone you know has it, you must report it immediately. You can do this by calling the Defra Rural Services Helpline on 03000 200 301. 
