 Cellulitis is a skin infection that's treated with antibiotics. It can be serious if it's not treated quickly. 
 
 Urgent advice: Get advice from 111 now if: your skin is painful, hot and swollenEarly treatment with antibiotics can stop cellulitis becoming more serious.111 will tell you what to do. They can arrange a phone call from a nurse or doctor if you need one.Go to 111.nhs.uk or call 111. 
Symptoms of cellulitis
 Symptoms of cellulitis Cellulitis makes your skin painful, hot and swollen. The area usually looks red, but this may be less obvious on brown or black skin.Your skin may also be blistered, and you can also have swollen, painful glands.You can get cellulitis on any part of your body, such as: Hands – causing swelling in your fingers or the back of your hand. Credit: DR P. MARAZZI/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY https://www.sciencephoto.com/media/252466/view Feet – sometimes near toes if you have athlete's foot. Credit: SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY https://www.sciencephoto.com/media/608470/view Legs – usually the lower legs. Credit: Casa nayafana https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/cellulitis-right-lower-limb-685424695 Eye – which is very serious. The white part of your eye may become red, but this does not always happen. Credit: DR P. MARAZZI / SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY https://www.sciencephoto.com/media/252613/view 
Treatment for cellulitis
 Treatment for cellulitis For mild cellulitis affecting a small area of skin, a doctor will prescribe antibiotic tablets – usually for a week.Your symptoms might get worse in the first 48 hours of treatment, but should then start to improve.Contact a GP if you do not start to feel better 2 to 3 days after starting antibiotics.It's important to keep taking antibiotics until they're finished, even when you feel better.Most people make a full recovery after 7 to 10 days.If cellulitis is severe, you might be referred to hospital for treatment. 
 To stop cellulitis recurringSome people with recurring cellulitis might be prescribed low-dose long-term antibiotics to stop infections coming back. 
Things you can do yourself
 Things you can do yourself As well as taking antibiotics for cellulitis, you can help speed up your recovery by:taking paracetamol or ibuprofen for the painraising the affected body part on a pillow or chair when you're sitting or lying down, to reduce swellingregularly moving the joint near the affected body part, such as your wrist or ankle, to stop it getting stiffdrinking plenty of fluids to avoid dehydrationnot wearing compression stockings until you're betterYou can reduce the chances of getting cellulitis again by:keeping skin clean and well moisturisedcleaning any cuts or wounds and using antiseptic creampreventing cuts and scrapes by wearing appropriate clothing and footwearwearing gloves if working outside 
Cellulitis complications
 Cellulitis complications If it's not treated quickly, the infection can spread to other parts of the body, such as the blood, muscles and bones. Immediate action required: Call 999 or go to A&E now if you have cellulitis with: a very high temperature, or you feel hot and shiverya fast heartbeat or fast breathingpurple patches on your skin, but this may be less obvious on brown or black skinfeeling dizzy or faintconfusion or disorientationcold, clammy or pale skinunresponsiveness or loss of consciousnessThese are symptoms of serious complications, which can be life threatening. 
What causes cellulitis
 What causes cellulitis Cellulitis is usually caused by a bacterial infection.The bacteria can infect the deeper layers of your skin if it's broken, for example, because of an insect bite or cut, or if it's cracked and dry.Sometimes the break in the skin is too small to notice.You cannot catch cellulitis from another person, as it affects the deeper layers of the skin.You're more at risk of cellulitis if you:have poor circulation in your arms, legs, hands or feet, for example, because you're overweightfind it difficult to move aroundhave a weakened immune system, for example, because of chemotherapy treatment or diabeteshave lymphoedema, which causes fluid build-up under the skininject drugshave a wound from surgeryhave had cellulitis beforePeople who are more at risk of cellulitis should treat athlete's foot promptly. 
 Information: Social care and support guideIf you:need help with day-to-day living because of illness or disabilitycare for someone regularly because they're ill, elderly or disabled, including family membersOur guide to care and support explains your options and where you can get support. 
 
