 Dyspraxia, also known as developmental co-ordination disorder (DCD), is a common disorder that affects movement and co-ordination.Dyspraxia does not affect your intelligence. It can affect your co-ordination skills – such as tasks requiring balance, playing sports or learning to drive a car. Dyspraxia can also affect your fine motor skills, such as writing or using small objects.This page focuses on dyspraxia in adults. You can also read about childhood dyspraxia. 
Symptoms of dyspraxia
 Symptoms of dyspraxiaSymptoms of dyspraxia can vary between individuals and may change over time. You may find routine tasks difficult.If you have dyspraxia it may affect:your co-ordination, balance and movementhow you learn new skills, think, and remember information at work and homeyour daily living skills, such as dressing or preparing mealsyour ability to write, type, draw and grasp small objectshow you function in social situationshow you deal with your emotionstime management, planning and personal organisation skillsDyspraxia should not be confused with other disorders affecting movement, such as cerebral palsy and stroke. It can affect people of all intellectual abilities. 
When to see a GP
 When to see a GPSee a GP if you think you may have undiagnosed dyspraxia or problems with your co-ordination. It's a good idea to keep a diary of your symptoms. The GP may refer you to a physiotherapist or an occupational therapist for tests. They'll assess your movements and how your symptoms are affecting you before making a diagnosis. If you have dyspraxia, you may also have other conditions, such as:attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)dyslexiaautism spectrum disorderdifficulty learning or understanding maths (dyscalculia)depression or anxiety 
Causes of dyspraxia
 Causes of dyspraxiaIt's not known what causes dyspraxia. You may be at a higher risk of developing it if you were born prematurely.Dyspraxia is more common in men and often runs in families. 
Treatment for dyspraxia
 Treatment for dyspraxiaThere is no cure for dyspraxia but there are therapies that can help with daily living, such as:occupational therapy – to help you find practical ways to remain independent and manage everyday tasks such as writing or preparing foodcognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) – a talking therapy that can help you manage your problems by changing the way you think and behaveIt may also help if you:keep fit – you may find regular exercise helps with co-ordination, reduces feelings of fatigue and prevents you gaining weightlearn how to use a computer or laptop if writing by hand is difficultuse a calendar, diary or app to improve your organisationlearn how to talk positively about your challenges and how you've overcome themget support from programmes such as Access to Work from Jobcentre Plus 
Support for people living with dyspraxia
 Support for people living with dyspraxiaDyspraxia can have a big effect on your life, but support is available to help you manage your condition.It might help to talk to others with dyspraxia or to connect with a charity.You may find these charity and forum links useful:Dyspraxia Foundation – it has a list of local support groups you can join to share your experiences with othersDyspraxic Adults – a forum for adults with dyspraxiaMovement Matters UK – see its page of useful links 
