 Dystonia is the name for uncontrolled and sometimes painful muscle movements (spasms). It's usually a lifelong problem, but treatment can help relieve the symptoms. 
Check if you have dystonia
 Check if you have dystoniaDystonia can affect your whole body or just 1 part. It can start at any age.Symptoms of dystonia include:uncontrolled muscle cramps and spasmsparts of your body twisting into unusual positions – such as your neck being twisted to the side or your feet turning inwardsshaking (tremors)uncontrolled blinkingThe symptoms may be continuous or come and go. They may be triggered by things like stress or certain activities. What can trigger dystonia symptoms tirednessstressdrinking alcohol or caffeinetalkingeating or chewingactivities like writing, typing or playing an instrument 
 Non-urgent advice: See a GP if: you think you might have dystoniaDystonia is uncommon, but it's best to get the symptoms checked out. How dystonia is diagnosedIf your GP thinks you could have dystonia, they may refer you to a specialist called a neurologist for tests.To diagnose dystonia, a neurologist may:ask about your symptomsask about any other conditions you have and if anyone else in your family has dystonia (sometimes it can be inherited)carry out some blood and urine testsarrange a brain scan to look for any problemsIf you're diagnosed with dystonia, your neurologist can tell you which type you have and what your treatment options are. Main types of dystonia Main types of dystonia and areas affected Type Area affected Generalised dystonia most of the body Myoclonus dystonia arms, neck and torso Cervical dystonia (torticollis) neck only Blepharospasm eyes Laryngeal dystonia voice box (larynx) Task-specific dystonia (writer's cramp) arms and wrists Oromandibular dystonia lower face, tongue or jaw Read more on the different types of dystonia from Dystonia UK 
Treatments for dystonia
 Treatments for dystoniaTreatment can help relieve the symptoms of dystonia. The best option for you depends on the type of dystonia you have.The main treatments for dystonia are:injections of a medicine called botulinum toxin directly into the affected muscles – these need to be repeated about every 3 monthsmedicine to relax the muscles in a larger part of your body – given as tablets or injections into a veina type of surgery called deep brain stimulationPhysiotherapy and occupational therapy may also help.Surgery for dystoniaDeep brain stimulation is the main type of surgery for dystonia. It may be offered on the NHS if other treatments do not help.It involves inserting a small device, similar to a pacemaker, under the skin of your chest or tummy.The device sends electrical signals along wires placed in the part of the brain that controls movement.Read more on deep brain stimulation from Dystonia UK 
Living with dystonia
 Living with dystoniaDystonia affects people in different ways. The severity of symptoms can vary from one day to another.It can have a big effect on your life and make daily activities painful and difficult.It's usually a lifelong condition. It may get worse for a few years but then remain steady. Occasionally, it can improve over time. Information: You can get support if you live with dystonia from Dystonia UK. 
Causes of dystonia
 Causes of dystoniaDystonia is thought to be caused by a problem with the part of the brain that controls movement.Often the cause is unknown.Sometimes it can be due to:an inherited genetic problemParkinson's diseasea strokecerebral palsymultiple sclerosis 
