 Farting, also known as flatulence or wind, is normal. There are things you can do if you fart a lot or it's smelly. Sometimes it can be a sign of a health condition. 
Check if your farting is normal
 Check if your farting is normal Farting is usually nothing to worry about. Everyone farts, some people more than others.What's normal is different for everyone. If you notice a change or it's affecting your life, there are things you can do. 
Things you can do to cut down excessive or smelly farts
 Things you can do to cut down excessive or smelly farts Do eat smaller meals, more often drink or chew food slowly, with your mouth closed exercise regularly to improve how your body digests food drink peppermint tea Don’t do not chew gum, smoke, or suck pen tops or hard sweets (to avoid swallowing air) do not wear loose-fitting dentures do not eat too many foods that are difficult to digest and make you fart do not drink too much beer, wine or fruit juice Food and drinks that can make you fart cabbagebroccolicauliflowerbrussels sproutspulses, like beans or lentilsdried fruit, like raisins or apricotsonionsfood or drinks containing the sweetener sorbitolfizzy drinks and beer A pharmacist can help with excessive or smelly fartsSpeak to a pharmacist about excessive or smelly farts.They might be able to tell you:if you can buy something to help – for example, charcoal tablets or special underwear and pads that absorb smellsif you should see a GP Find a pharmacy 
 
 Non-urgent advice: See a GP if: farting is affecting your life and self help and pharmacy treatments have not workedyou have a stomach ache or bloating that will not go away or comes backyou keep getting constipation or diarrhoeayou have lost weight without tryingyou've had blood in your poo for 3 weeks 
What causes excessive or smelly farts
 What causes excessive or smelly farts Excessive or smelly farts can be caused when you swallow air or eat foods that are difficult to digest. It can also sometimes be a sign of a health condition.Do not self-diagnose. See a GP if you're worried about your farting. Possible causes of farting Symptoms Possible causes Difficulty pooing and stomach pain Constipation Bloating, stomach pain with diarrhoea or constipation that comes and goes Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) Indigestion, constipation, diarrhoea and stomach pain Coeliac disease Diarrhoea, bloating, stomach pain, feeling sick Lactose intolerance Excessive or smelly wind can also be a side effect of some medicines, including:non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), like ibuprofensome laxativesantifungal medicinesstatinsDo not stop or change your medicine without speaking to a GP first. 
 
