 Gastritis is when the lining of your stomach becomes irritated (inflamed). It can cause pain, indigestion and feeling sick. Treatments include antacids, alginates and antibiotics. 
Check if you have gastritis
 Check if you have gastritis Symptoms of gastritis include:tummy painindigestionfeeling full and bloatedfeeling sick (nausea)being sick (vomiting)not feeling as hungry as usualburping and farting 
 
 Immediate action required: Call 999 or go to A&E if: you're vomiting bright red blood or your vomit looks like ground coffeeyour poo is black, sticky and extremely smellyyou have severe tummy or chest pain that started suddenly Find your nearest A&E 
 
 Urgent advice: Ask for an urgent GP appointment or get help from NHS 111 if: You have symptoms of gastritis and:you've lost your appetiteyou feel full after a very small mealyou've recently lost weight without trying toit feels like you have a lump in your tummyit's painful or difficult to swallowyou keep being sickThese can be serious, so they need to be checked quickly.You can call 111 or get help from 111 online. 
 
 Non-urgent advice: See a GP if: you have tummy pain or indigestion for longer than 1 weekyour tummy pain is getting worse or keeps coming back 
Causes of gastritis
 Causes of gastritis Causes of gastritis include:infection with a bacteria called helicobacter pylori (H. pylori)taking anti-inflammatory painkillers (such as ibuprofen) and aspirindrinking too much alcoholbeing very stressed and unwell, such as after surgeryGastritis can also be caused by a problem with your immune system where it attacks the lining of your stomach. 
What happens at your GP appointment
 What happens at your GP appointment To find out what's causing gastritis symptoms, your doctor might arrange tests such as:a breath test to check for the bacteria helicobactor pylori (H. pylori); you'll be given a special drink and your breath is checked afterwardsa test on a sample of your pooa blood testYou should be told how to get ready for a breath test around 4 weeks before it happens. 
Treatment for gastritis
 Treatment for gastritis Treatment for gastritis depends on what's causing it.You might need:antibioticsmedicines to control stomach acid and stop it from rising into your food pipe (oesophagus), such as antacids, proton pump inhibitors or alginatesto talk to your doctor about stopping anti-inflammatory painkillers (such as ibuprofen) or aspirin and trying a different medicine, if possibleto stop drinking alcohol, if gastritis is caused by alcoholIf it's not treated, gastritis may get worse and cause a stomach ulcer.If gastritis is not getting better, or it's causing severe symptoms, a GP might refer you to a specialist stomach doctor (gastroenterologist). They might do a test to look inside your stomach, called a gastroscopy. 
Things you can do to help gastritis
 Things you can do to help gastritis If gastritis is causing mild indigestion symptoms, there are things you can do to help. Do reduce the amount of drinks you have that contain caffeine, such as tea, coffee, cola and energy drinks lie on an extra pillow in bed so your head and shoulders are higher, to help stop stomach acid rising up your throat while you sleep lose weight if you're overweight talk to your doctor if you regularly take anti-inflammatory painkillers (such as ibuprofen) or aspirin Don’t do not eat 3 to 4 hours before going to bed do not have food or drink that's acidic (such as orange juice), fizzy, spicy or fatty do not drink alcohol do not smoke A pharmacist can help with mild indigestionA pharmacist can recommend:medicines to help stop stomach acid from irritating your stomach and oesophagus, such as antacids and alginatesmedicines that reduce the amount of acid your stomach makes, such as proton pump inhibitorsSome indigestion medicines are taken after eating, and some are taken before eating. Check the information leaflet that comes with the medicine. Find a pharmacy 
