 Losing your hair is not usually anything to be worried about, but it can be upsetting. Treatment may help with some types of hair loss. 
Causes of hair loss
 Causes of hair loss It's normal to lose hair. We can lose between 50 and 100 hairs a day, often without noticing.Hair loss is not usually anything to be worried about, but occasionally it can be a sign of a medical condition.Some types of hair loss are permanent, like male and female pattern baldness. This type of hair loss usually runs in the family.Other types of hair loss may be temporary. They can be caused by:an illnessstresscancer treatmentweight lossiron deficiency 
 Find out more about cancer and hair loss 
 
 Non-urgent advice: See a GP if: you're worried about your hair loss 
What happens at your appointment
 What happens at your appointment The GP may be able to tell you what's causing your hair loss by looking at your hair.Tell them if your hair loss is affecting your wellbeing, and ask what treatments are available. Important See a GP to get an idea about what's causing your hair loss before thinking about going to a commercial hair clinic. 
Treatment for hair loss
 Treatment for hair loss Most hair loss does not need treatment and is either:temporary and it'll grow backa normal part of getting olderHair loss caused by a medical condition usually stops or grows back once you've recovered.There are things you can try if your hair loss is causing you distress. But most treatments are not available on the NHS, so you'll have to pay for them.No treatment is 100% effective.Finasteride and minoxidilFinasteride and minoxidil are the main treatments for male pattern baldness.Minoxidil can also be used to treat female pattern baldness. Women should not use finasteride.These treatments:do not work for everyoneonly work for as long as they're usedare not available on the NHScan be expensiveWigsSome wigs are available on the NHS, but you may have to pay unless you qualify for financial help.Synthetic wigs:last 6 to 9 monthsare easier to look after than real-hair wigscan be itchy and hotcost less than real-hair wigsReal-hair wigs:last 3 to 4 yearsare harder to look after than synthetic wigslook more natural than synthetic wigscost more than synthetic wigs 
 Find out more about NHS wigs and costs 
 Other hair loss treatments Other possible treatments for hair loss Treatment Description Treatment Steroid injection Description Injections given into bald patches Treatment Steroid creams Description Cream applied to bald patches Treatment Immunotherapy Description Chemical applied to bald patches Treatment Light treatment Description Shining ultraviolet light on bald patches Treatment Tattooing Description Tattoo used to look like short hair and eyebrows Treatment Hair transplant Description Hair is removed from the back of the head and moved to thinning patches Treatment Scalp reduction surgery Description Sections of scalp with hair are stretched and stitched together Treatment Artificial hair transplant Description Surgery to implant artificial hairs Some of these treatments may not be available on the NHS. 
Emotional help
 Emotional help Losing hair can be upsetting. For many people, their hair is an important part of who they are.If your hair loss is causing you distress, your GP may be able to help you get some counselling.You may also benefit from joining a support group, or speaking to other people in the same situation on online forums. 
 Find a support group near you on the Alopecia UK website Information: Further information and supportCancer Research UK: hair lossMacmillan: hair loss 
