 Pericarditis is inflammation of the lining around your heart, which causes chest pain. It's not usually serious, but it can sometimes cause serious health problems. Get medical advice if you have chest pain. 
Check if you have pericarditis
 Check if you have pericarditis The main symptom of pericarditis is chest pain.The chest pain usually:feels sharp or stabbingspreads to your shoulders, arms or tummygets worse when you breathe in deeply, swallow, cough or lie down (especially when you lie down on your left side)gets better when you lean forwardYou may also feel hot and shivery or have a high temperature, cough or painful joints.If you get pericarditis, it often follows a viral infection like a cold or flu. 
 
 Urgent advice: Ask for an urgent GP appointment or get help from NHS 111 if: You have chest pain and it:is sharp or stabbinggets worse when you take a deep breath in, swallow, cough or lie downYou can call 111 or get help from 111 online. 
 
 Immediate action required: Call 999 if: You have sudden chest pain that:spreads to your arms, back, neck or jawmakes your chest feel tight or heavyalso started with shortness of breath, sweating and feeling or being sicklasts more than 15 minutesYou could be having a heart attack. Call 999 immediately as you need immediate treatment in hospital. 
Tests for pericarditis
 Tests for pericarditis A GP will listen to your heart to check for pericarditis. This is because it can change the sound your heart makes.To confirm pericarditis, the GP may:do some blood testsrefer you for a chest X-ray, electrocardiogram (ECG) or echocardiogram in hospitalECGs are safe and painless, and some GPs can do them at the surgery. 
Treatment for pericarditis
 Treatment for pericarditis Treatment for pericarditis will depend on what's causing it. You may be given anti-inflammatory painkillers, such as ibuprofen, to help ease symptoms like pain.Sitting up or leaning forward can also help ease the pain.You may need other treatment. For example, a GP may prescribe medicines such as:colchicine – if anti-inflammatory painkillers do not work or pericarditis keeps coming backsteroids – if colchicine does not workantibiotics – if pericarditis is caused by a bacterial infectionMost people feel better within a few weeks. 
Causes of pericarditis
 Causes of pericarditis Your heart has a protective fluid-filled sac around it called the pericardium.In pericarditis, the pericardium gets inflamed, and blood or fluid can leak into it.It's difficult to confirm the exact cause of pericarditis, but it's usually a viral infection, such as a cold or flu. 
