 A tremor is when you're not able to control shaking or trembling in part of your body. See a GP if a tremor is affecting your life as treatment may help to reduce it. 
When a tremor is normal
 When a tremor is normal It's normal to have a slight tremor. For example, if you hold your hands or arms out in front of you, they will not be completely still.Sometimes a tremor becomes more noticeable.This often happens:as you get olderwhen you're stressed, tired, anxious or angryafter drinking caffeine (for example, in tea, coffee or cola) or smokingif you're very hot or coldSome medicines and conditions can also cause a tremor. Speak to your GP before you stop taking any prescribed medicine. 
 Non-urgent advice: See a GP if: You have a tremor or shaking hands and:it's getting worse over timeit's affecting your daily activitiesYour doctor will want to make sure the tremor is not caused by another condition. They may also be able to offer treatment. 
What happens at your GP appointment
 What happens at your GP appointment To find out what might be causing your tremor, a GP may examine you and ask:if you have any other symptomsif you're taking any medicineabout your and your family's medical history – some types of tremor run in familiesA mild tremor that's not caused by another condition does not usually need any treatment. The GP may want to monitor you to make sure it does not get any worse.You may be referred to a specialist for further tests if your tremor could be a symptom of a condition like Parkinson's disease or multiple sclerosis. 
Treating a severe tremor
 Treating a severe tremor If you have a tremor that's affecting your life, your GP may prescribe medicine. Medicine will not cure the tremor, but it often helps to reduce the shaking or trembling.You may need to take medicine all the time, or only when you need it – for example, before a stressful situation that causes your tremor to get worse.If a tremor is affecting your head or voice, you may be offered injections to block the nerves and relax the muscles.Rarely, brain surgery may be an option to treat a severe tremor that is not helped by medicine. 
 Information: More informationNational Tremor Foundation: surgery and tremorNational Tremor Foundation: daily living 
